As I mentioned in the introduction to this section,
an engineer named Daniel Borough has
designed an ingenious method of managing user data in Kafka.
Daniel created an idea called encrypted user keys.
The idea is that you create a topic that maps a user ID to an encryption key.
You then use this encryption key to encrypt any data related to a user,
before putting it into any other Kafka topic.
So if I have a topic or multiple topics containing user data,
I can take that key specific to the user,
and I've used color here to map this key to this red key.
So this red key to this red user data,
this blue key to this blue user data,
and this purple key to the purple user data.
If I want to access this data,
I have to take this key and decrypt the user data.
Same deal with the blue key to the blue user data,
and the purple key to the purple user data.
You can then use this encryption key to encrypt any data
related to a user before putting it into any other Kafka topic.
So again, as we create this data,
we would create the data and then put the key into the encryption topic,
put those two things together and we would be able to decrypt this data
to get out the actual information contained in this data record.
If you wish to delete the user data,
you simply need to compact and delete
their encryption key from the encrypted user key topic.
Once the user key is gone,
it is effectively impossible for any application in
your system to decrypt the user's data ever again.
This simple and powerful idea vastly
reduces the management overhead of deleting user data.
Kudos to Daniel for coming up with this creative idea.